Academic abstract
==================

Wider research context:

At the LHC,  the Higgs boson production is sensitive to an effective extension of the standard model (SM-EFT).  
Including the data from the LHC Run 3,  differential cross sections of Higgs boson production in association with a vector boson (WH or ZH,  collectively denoted as VH) can be measured up to high energies. 
While simple kinematic spectra are already known,  the process is in fact sensitive to a large number of SM-EFT modifications that are discernible in boosted final states and subtle correlations of angular observables,  never before considered in an VH measurement.

Objectives:

The objective is to measure the SM-EFT operators involved in VH production,  some of which are accessible for the first time at LHC,   as well as the charge-parity (CP) structure of the H-V interaction up to the highest achievable energies.

Method:

Sensitivity to SM-EFT operators will be measured from the modifications in kinematic distributions,  including the highly energetic taisl,  using the data collected by the CMS experiment during the LHC Run 2 (2016-2018) and Run 3 (2022-2024),  amounting to an integrated luminosity of at least 300/fb. 
At high energy,  the Higgs boson,  produced with large transverse momentum,  is reconstructed using a single large-radius jet,  which will be analyzed using jet substructure techniques.  Complementary angular variables,  unexplored so far in Higgs boson measurements,  will be utilized to access multi-dimensional information of the process and to look for the direct detection of additional sources of CP violation in the Higgs sector.

Level of originality:

Multi-dimensional event information is used to directly probe,  for the first time,  a large number of SM-EFT operators exploiting their energy growth and simultaneously measure the CP structure of the H-V coupling.  


Primary researchers involved:

The project leader,  applicant, and principal investigator (PI) is Dr. Suman Chatterjee.  He will spend 100 % of his time on the project.  Dr. Chatterjee is a post-doctoral researcher at the Institute for High Energy Physics (HEPHY) of the ÖAW.  The PI and the PhD student will carry out the body of the work .


